Well now let's take our new found Lego abilities and work on something a little bit more complicated
like one of the Lego people I'm going to bring in a new reference image over here.
I'm just going to click on the open button and let's bring in this Lego man reference image.
I click open and there he is.
Now this is just a little key chain.
I'm not going to make the light on the bottom of the foot but I thought this was a good reference image
to use to kind of build up the basics of a Lego person.
So let's think about this in terms of what we've already done.
I'm going to press control up arrow and that will maximize the screen that my mouse was hovering over.
So here we have them we've got the body that is just really a cube a block that's scaled in on the top
a bit.
You can tell we'd want to put a subdivision surface modifier on this because it has slightly rounded
edges here for the head.
It looks like it's just a cylinder with an extruded top and an extruded bottom for the neck.
The hips here just looks like a cube.
The more complex pieces of this will be the arms the hands and the legs.
But I think with the tools we've already gone over we can build all of this.
So let's give it a try.
I'm going to press control up arrow again to minimize that
and let's begin with this torso.
So I'm going to go to a brand new layer here.
And one thing I found when I model is that the default camera focal length for Blender is kind of distorting
and you can see that here see how the grid is kind of stretched when modeling this can kind of distort
your proportions.
So what I'm going to do is come over here to the properties panel and under the View area in the lens
angle I'm going to change this from 35 to 50 and that gives me a little bit more of an undistorted view
of my model.
It's really just personal preference but I wanted to just mention that before we began.
All right.
So let's start over here with the Create tab and let's just create a cube and there is the beginnings
of our torso.
So going across the period key on the number pad to zoom into it and to frame it up.
So I tumbled around it and I'll go to my scale manipulator right here and I'll begin just collapsing
that in this way.
Maybe bring it out a bit like that.
I'm just trying to get this cube to be about the same size as the torso on our reference image.
So something like that maybe.
And then I'll tab into edit mode and press control tab and choose face then I'll select this face and
just scale it in a bit something like that and maybe even move it down some.
So I'm just trying to get that basic shape.
All right so if I tab back into edit mode let's call that good I'll move it down a bit to just kind
of get it in place it's going to be hard to know until we begin building up the hips and the legs how
high this should be off the grid.
But I think that's generally pretty good.
All right so I had mentioned before that we had these kind of rounded edges.
We can do that by adding a subdivision surface modifier again a quick add modifier subdivision surface.
And of course it collapses into ugliness.
But we can fix that.
I'm going to increase the view to two here and now if I hit the tab key I can tap into edit mode and
we can see both the smooth object and the unsmooth.
If I turn this on it will just show us the smoothed object.
But if I turn it off we can see both at the same time as we work.
So what I'll do is go ahead and begin inserting some loops here so I'll press control r and insert an
edge loop and I'll click and then I'll drag it up near the top and press control again and do that down
here on the bottom and we need a couple of more running vertically here.
So I'll click and drag one over here.
And click and drag one over here.
I think we need two more one here and one here.
Something like that.
All right so I tab back into object mode and you can see we've got those rounded corners.
Now those rounded edges.
I'm going to come over here to the tools tab and click on smooth.
We can still see the faceted polygons here but if I click smooth and kind of smooth those out.
All right we've got that part of the Lego guy.
Let's now work on the head the head.
It looks like is just a cylinder.
So I'll come over here to the Create tab click cylinder and I don't think we need so many polygons on
this if I pull this up here we can see the number of sides that our cylinder has.
And right now it's got 32 and that's a bit too much.
Let's take it down to 12 like that.
And we also have a cap on this.
That's an n gone and I don't know that we want an end gun on this.
Let's change that from an n gon which is a polygon with more than four sides to a triangle fan which
is just a fan of three sided polygons.
So there we go we've got those.
And let's pull this up into place and try and scale it to size.
So I'll go to my move tool and move this up.
I'll hit the key and scale that down a bit.
And let's see if we can get it about the right size I'll hit s and Z to just scale in the z axis and
maybe ask for the whole thing and scale it and just a bit as well.
OK so now I've got what I think is a pretty good size for the Lego head.
What I'll do is select these faces up here on top all press control tab and hit the three key to go
to face mode.
And I'll select these faces up on top to do that I can press the C key for the circle select tool I
can scroll the mouse wheel to change the size of the Select brush and then I can just click and drag
around to the top to select all of those faces.
I'll hit the right mouse button.
And now I've got all those selected I'll press e and click and then I'll hit the s key and scale those
in some something like that maybe and then I'll hit the e key again and pull straight up for the top
piece of the head.
All right let's try that on the bottom now for the neck.
Press the C key select all of those faces.
Well I've still got these selected I better hit the key first and then press C and select all of those.
And now it's hit E and click and S and scale in and then e and pull down something like that all right.
So if I tab back into object mode and add a subdivision surface modifier on this you can see once again
it collapses but that's OK.
We can hit the tab key to see it in both smooth and unsmooth and begin inserting our edge loops here.
So for this part our press control our and scroll the mouse wheel one time and then click and click
again.
And now if I press S and Z I can scale these up like that.
Now we need to insert some edge loops appear on the top and press control r and click and pull out a
bit and another one in here toward the center.
And maybe two more in here with that scaling in the Z.
So.
All right.
And let's go do that on the bottom as well.
So all press control our on here
one here and then to here s z and scale.
All right.
Now let's come over here to the tools tab and click the smooth shading.
It's looking pretty good although it looks a little too tall now doesn't it.
So all press S and Z and scale it down just a hair.
But now I think I need to move this top part up a bit and it looks to me like these edges now aren't
too sharp compared to these edges over here.
This looks more rounded.
So I'm going to tab back into edit mode and I'll press alt and click to select this edge and shift alt
and click to select that edge and I'll press S and Z again and I'll scale these back in.
And that helps.
That's going to help it round out just a bit there on the edges.
If I do that and also if I come in here and select these edges and scale these and this will help round
those out a bit as well to isolate this one and scale that in just a hair.
There we go.
But I'd like to pull that top piece up a little bit more.
So I'm going to go to face mode and press C and select all of these.
And I just want to bring all of those up a bit.
Well I think I want to bring this edge with it.
This row of faces along so to do that I can actually expand my selection.
I can press control and the Plus key and the number pad and expand my selection and I can press control
plus again and you can see how it can expand.
Now if I had control minus I can contract the selection and I'll just pull this up.
Now just a little bit more.
There we go.
All right we have our torso in our head.
Let's work on this hips piece right here.
That should be fairly easy we'll just go to the Create tab and click on cube and we can just bring this
up and scale this to size.
So I switched to my scale manipulator and I will just collapse this down until we get it about the way
we want it.
There we go.
And once again we should add our subdivision surface modifier to this so go to add a modifier.
So division surface will hit our tab key and now we can add a few loops so press control our scroll
the mouse wheel click and click again and scale these out.
And I'll do the same thing horizontally control our scroll the mouse wheel click click again and I'll
just expand these up and we'll do that over here as well.
All right so there we have the block for the hips.
I'll go over to the Tools tab and smooth that will in the next video let's work on the pieces that are
going to be a little bit more complicated like the arms and the legs.